  -- RAYSUM anisotropic ray theory code, (c) Andrew Frederiksen --
  -- First distribution version, Aug. 24, 2001                  --
  -- e-mail: andyf@es.ucsc.edu                                  --


This program generates sets of ray-theoretical seismograms for an
incident plane wave (teleseismic approximation) for models consisting
of a stack of layers with planar but nonparallel (dipping) interfaces,
allowing the possibility of anisotropy in the layers. Incident P and S
waves are supported.

For more information, see the paper:

   Frederiksen, A.W., and Bostock, M.G. (1999) Modelling teleseismic
   waves in dipping anisotropic structures. Geophysical Journal
   International 141: 401-412.
   
If extensive use of this code is made in published material, a reference
to the above paper would be appreciated. The latest version of the code
is available at http://www.es.ucsc.edu/~andyf/Software/ .


*** Installation:

This package contains the source code and Solaris/Sparc binaries for
the forward-modelling component of the RAYSUM package (the inversion
portion of the package contains code by Malcolm Sambridge which
requires his permission to use -- e-mail me if interested). If running
on a Sun, then, it should be sufficient to add the bin/ subdirectory to
your path (in your .login file).

If running on a non-Sun system, you'll have to recompile; you may also
want to do this on a Sun to obtain optimum performance on your system.
To do this, 'cd src', then type 'make all'. If this fails, you
unfortunately will need to edit 'Makefile' in the 'src' directory; for
instance, you may need to set 'F77 = g77' and alter the 'FFLAGS =' and
'LDFLAGS =' lines. Other than those fields, nothing else in the
Makefile should need changing.


*** Use:

The executable is called 'seis-spread'; it reads its input from files
and is entirely non-interactive. Typing 'seis-spread' on its own
returns a list of the desired command-line parameters.

A sample run of the code is in the 'Sample' subdirectory. The command
line used here was:

seis-spread sample.mod sample.geom sample.ph sample.arr sample.tr SV

The input files are:

  sample.mod -- contains the layered Earth model
  sample.geom -- contains event/receiver geometry
  
Input or output file:

  sample.ph -- phases generated. Normally output (phases are generated
               automatically), but may be read if an option is set in
               raysum-params (see below)
               
Output files:

  sample.arr -- list of arrivals with travel time and amplitude, keyed
                to the phase list
                
  sample.tr -- generated traces
  
The 'SV' at the end of the line indicates that the incident wave is SV
polarized; other options are P and SH. If this field is omitted, P is
assumed.

Parameter file:

  raysum-params -- automatically generated with default values if not
                   already present.
                   
All of these files are ASCII and may contain comments on lines beginning
with '#'. The comments in the sample files document their formats.

